---
layout: page
title: "iOS SDK"
category: doc
date: 2015-01-22 16:05:00
---
# Overview
The iOS SDK offers developers an object oriented library by which on can communicate directly with a Poynt Smart Terminal using an iOS compatible device. Currently the SDK supports systems running >= iOS 8. 

## Key Components
### PoyntPOSConnectionManager
The `PoyntPOSConnectionManager` sets the stage for communicating with a Poynt Smart Termnial. The only required paramters are the ip address of the terminal and the paring code generated by the terminal. This implies that the iOS device must be on the same WiFi network as the terminal. The iOS SDK does offer an automatic way to discover Poynt terminals on the same network. See the [`PoyntTerminalDiscover`](/developer/ios-sdk/html/interface_poynt_terminal_discover.html) for more details.	

### PoyntPaymentObject
Use `PoyntPaymentObject` to create a new payment transaction. This object describes the overall understanding of the transaction from totals, subtotals, discounts, currency, etc. It's most commonly coupled with a [`PoyntOrderObject`](/developer/ios-sdk/html/interface_poynt_order_object.html).

Common use cases would be selling a ticket at the door, or building an order at a cafe.

### PoyntTransactionObject
Because this object ALWAYS has a `transactionId`, it is most commonly used in cases when you will modify an existing object from Poynt Services

## Getting Started
### Connect to your terminal
Before you can interact with the terminal, you must first authorize your iOS client. We've provided two ways to accomplish this:

* automatic discovery
* manual 

#### Automatic Discovery

```
let discovery = PoyntTerminalDiscover()
discovery.findTerminals { (terminals) in
    if let terms = terminals as? [PoyntTerminal] {
        self.data = terms
        self.tableView.reloadData()
        self.title = "\(self.data.count) terminals"
    }
}
```        


### Create & Send a payment 
The most common use case is creating and sending a payment object. We can imagine a scenario where a merchant creates a payment for 3 cups of coffee. In this example, we will write the setup using Swift
:
```
//set up a payment transaction object to hold our items
let payment = PoyntPaymentObject()
payment.currency = "USD"
payment.tipAmount = 0        
payment.disableTip = false
payment.multiTender = false

//add order object to the transaction
payment.order = PoyntOrderObject()
payment.order?.notes =  "i am a note"

//add items to the order object (3 cups of coffee, $1 each)
let item0 = PoyntOrderItemObject(sku: "com.merchant.coffee", unitPrice: 100, quantity: 3.0)
item0.name = "Drip Coffee"
item0.unitOfMeasure = EACH
item0.status = "ORDERED"

// (optional) add a $2 discount to an item for loyalty!
item0.discounts = [PoyntDiscountObject(amount: 200, customName: "Loyalty discount")]

// (optional) add tax to the item
item0.taxes = [PoyntOrderItemTax(amount:100,type: "Plastic lids")]

//add the items to the order
payment.order?.items = [item0]
payment.amounts?.currency = "USD"
```        

Once the payment is created with the desired items, discounts, and taxes, we are ready to send it off to the terminal

### Modify an existing transaction
Now that we've completed our payment, we can capture, void, or take other actions on this transaction object using its `transactionId`. In this example, we will capture the transaction object:

```
//add sample code
```